All right.
Now comes the fun part.
We're going to take all of this and make one u v map out of all these u v islands.
So to do that we need to combine all these objects together so I'm just going to begin selecting all
of these the head the hair the torso the arms the leg everything.
And I'm going to press control J to join these all into one object so control J.
And there we go.
PENN It turns out it's all called hair.
Let's let's just call this character for now.
Here in the outlier it looks like we've got a couple of issues with our smoothing.
Once we did that and that's fine we can come over here and go to Object data normals turn on auto smooth
and that cleans it up quite a bit.
We can drag this up maybe I'll drag it up almost to 90 not quite 90 because the next year I wanted to
keep that hard edge there.
So just under 80 it looks like and that looks pretty good all the way around.
OK.
So now that we've done that if we tap into edit mode look at what we have a total mess.
So what we need to do is combine all of these UVA islands together so that they all fit here into the
zero to one space and there is no overlap.
Now the reason why I call this the zero to one the space you can see if we take the 2D cursor and we
place it currently you can see it's at 0 0.
If I then come over here and choose 3d cursor or scuse me cursor it's now the 2D cursor here.
I can move it to right here.
You can see now that's 1 0 whereas x is 1 and Y is zero.
We can take it and type in 1 and 0 and it's right here.
Now we can enter one in here and it moves up to this corner and then we can enter zero here and it moves
over here.
So in terms of a graph this is 0 0.
And this is one and one.
So this is called the zero to one space.
All right.
I want to put the cursor back at 0 0.
There we go.
And now what I'll do is come over here and select everything here in the 3D view.
So we have all of our U vs visible over here.
Well then select the a key over here to select all of those you Vs.
And then we can come up here to the U V menu and there are two things we want to do.
We want to average the scale so that the scale of each of the V islands is the same as the relative
scale of our 3D objects.
And then we want to pack.
Islands we want to take all those islands and pack them in to this zero to one space.
So first of all I'm gonna click average island scale and there they are.
And now I want to click pack island and there they are.
Now they're all very tiny.
Remember we changed the margin here so we need to adjust this again.
I'm going to type in point 0 0 1 and let's see how that works.
And that brings them quite a bit closer together.
That may be a little bit too close.
Let me try.
Point 0 1.
There we go.
So that moves them apart from each other just a little bit.
So there we go.
There is our combined or unified UV map that the inky to close this panel.
Now what we can do is mirror the arms and the legs over again but this is going to take a little bit
of finagling.
We're gonna have to split these out into their own objects again mirror it over and then combine them
back and what that'll do is allow say the arm.
Let me select the arm here that will allow the U V islands of this arm to be in the exact same position
as the U V islands for the arm on the right.
So each of these u v islands will be one right on top of the other.
And that's what we want.
So what we need to do is select both the arm and the hand right here and we need to split this object
out from the rest of the object.
So to do that we just need to press the p key and then we need to separate by selection.
And there we go.
Now a tab back into object mode and vice like this.
That is its own object.
You can see the new object out here.
Now we need to once again move this origin to the 3d cursor here in the center of the grid.
We can of course snap the cursor by pressing shift s and saying cursor to world origin then we can move
the origin by coming up here to object set.
Origin origin to 3d cursor and then we can mirror this over so I'll come over here to the modifiers
panel add modifier mirror.
And there it is right there.
I'll then apply it.
Now it's included in this object here.
Then what we need to do is join it back to the rest of the objects.
So with these selected I'll shift select the character and then I'll press control J.
And that moves it back into that object.
Now watch this.
We tap back into edit mode if the a key you can see that the U the islands of the arms and the hands
are in the exact same place both the left and the right.
So if I say select this right here and if I select this right here with the L key there in the same
place.
Also the hands will hit the L key and the L key here.
So that's what we wanted.
We wanted these two symmetrical parts of the model to have u v islands one right on top of the other.
All right.
So let's do that again now with the legs.
So I come down here and I'll hover over the leg and I'll press the L key then I'll split it out into
its own object with the p key separate by selection now I'll tab into object mode and select that one
object all right.
So now let's move the origin to the 3d cursor set.
Origin origin the 3d cursor.
Now let's add a mirror modifier let's now apply it and then with the legs selected I'll press shift
and click the rest the character.
Press Control J and we'll add this back into the main character here control J.
There we go.
Now if we tap into edit mode if the key.
Now we've got the legs in the exact same place as well.
So once again if I select this leg and this leg you can see there in the exact same place.
So there you go.
That is one way to optimize your u v map by placing the maps or the islands of symmetrical parts one
right on top of the other.
All right.
Well now that we have the U V map taken care of we can now begin thinking about texture painting our
character.